Let's talk about the size of
the market and let's see the main
model, which is the Samsung TAM, which
is used to help us quantify
the size of the market, which is
what is called in English Market
Sizing.
Before we start, we want to
put ourselves in context.
When is this used?
Well, for example, when we are
making a marketing plan and
we have done segmentation,
we have identified different segments,
the next decision, targeting,
well, because one of the key
factors to decide whether
we will be targeting a segment
or not, is to quantify the
size of the market in that
segment, see if it
is large enough.
Or, for example, when we are analyzing
a business model, well, because that
is one of the key factors of analysis,
and it is vital for an entrepreneur
when you are going to launch a
startup or when you are going
to launch an innovative project
or product.
At that point what you have to do
is ask yourself, well, there is a
problem and besides that
it is big enough that problem
and it has a sufficient number
of people.
This is a big enough market
to make an investment,
an effort.
And why?
Why do I recall this?
Because what happens is a very
common mistake for companies,
for entrepreneurs, startups,
etc., not even to raise it.
And we have seen in very many
occasions, for example, we are
putting up many projects in which,
well, because it sounds good,
it seems that there is innovative
technology, an innovative value proposal,
etc., all the same is fine, but
you take the paper and make four
numbers and you say, well, we
are talking about one that you
can get to a 10 % and in addition
to that 10 % you may have a quota,
you will end up having a
quota of two, well, and you do
the numbers very quickly and
you say it is not large enough.
It is that not even in the best
of cases this will generate
enough income to justify
the effort you will make.
You should spend your money and effort
on something else.
Well, we have to stay alone with
that, with that really you have
to always make a decision of this
type before deciding whether we
are going to an additional
segment or if we create an additional
product, etc., always consider
the size of the market.
It is large enough.
Let's look at the most well-known
model that helps us, somehow helps
us to structure the analysis
to quantify the market.
And this one we have on the screen
is the TAM Samsung.
I will explain each of the
levels and I will also relate
it to an example.
We start with the Tam.
The TAM is the Total Approachable
Market, that is, the total
market you could target.
And I'll give you an example, let'
s think, we're thinking about
an app like Tulotero, an
app where you sell lotteries.
So what would the TAM, the total
market, be?
Well, we could consider the world
market, which is, I don't know,
many billions, or we could consider,
for example, the market
in Spain, which is 8.5 billion
euros.
It is the total market.
Why is it important to have a
total market perspective even though
you won't be able to reach the
entire market?
This gives us information about
the potential for growth.
Maybe with your current business
model you can't get there,
but well, things could pivot, etc.
And it's always better that the
overall market is bigger.
Then we have Sam.
The SAM is really the target market.
I will explain the difference between
the SAM and the TAM.
The SAM is the market
we can reach from our
business model.
This is wide, right?
What do I mean by this?
Well, it may be that the TAM is
the world market, but it is that
your business is, your business
model is thought to sell in
Spain.
They have the money to sell Spain.
So your SAM would be the market
in Spain.
But, look, let's not forget about
the TAM, because today you are in
Spain, but maybe within a time
you have resources to get out.
So the bigger the TAM, the better,
right?
But the SAM is your target
market, with your business
model, with your resources, etc.,
it is the market you can reach.
What you can get to.
And in the case that you talked about
the lottery in Spain, for example,
the TAM are 8.500 million, but look,
it is that those 8.500 million
are not all sold through an
app or through the internet.
I sell it at 10%.
I'm giving supposed data, right?
10% of the sales are made via the internet.
You are an application.
Well, because your SAM will be
10% of those 8.5 billion, that
is, 850 million.
Your target market is 850
million today, because it's
the total lottery sold over
the internet.
Now, let's go to the sound.
The SOM is the service obtainable,
what you can get.
Basically it is a percentage over the
SAM.
The target market is $850 million.
You are not the only competitor,
you have more competitors.
You will have a share, X whatever it is.
Then what we will do is either
determine the current quota or
make a projection of the quota
we can in the medium term.
What does the sound depend on?
The sound will depend on a lot
of things.
It depends on your value proposal,
well, because you have a competitive
advantage, it depends on you
going to have resources to
invest in marketing, etc.
We need to make a credible
approach, a reasonable
approach.
So, if I go back to the example that
was being put, the total market,
the TAM, that gives us information
about the potential,
right?
The bigger it is better.
For example, in the case of the world
lottery SOM Billions, in the case
of the lottery in Spain are 8500
million euros.
But we will go to analyze a little
more in detail already, but those
8500 million are sold, not all are
sold on the internet or by
application or on a website.
Let's see what percentage of them
are sold on a website.
Let's say it's 10 percent.
The total value is 850 million dollars,
which is the target market.
Well, but now what I have to
do is see within my target market,
within the SOM, what share
will I have?
Well, you have to make a projection
of the quota you will based
on, for that, your value proposal,
that you are more competitive,
less competitive, that
you have more resources
to invest in marketing,
etc.